Caption: afternoon in Rome I hope you enjoyed
Caption: your lunch and refresh ready for the
Caption: next session though my name is has and
Caption: today I'm talking about solution
Caption: architecture for cloud applications the
Caption: this is not neural network this is not
Caption: machine learning this is not cracking
Caption: math this is really more about my
Caption: experience in transitioning from being
Caption: the technical lead developed her into
Caption: solution architect
Caption: although most of the concepts that we're
Caption: going to be talking about it is
Caption: architecture it would it would apply not
Caption: only to cloud but also to mobile
Caption: applications and one firm is web they're
Caption: just at the beginning any show of hands
Caption: for how many architects in the room
Caption: that's very technical lathe
Caption: yeah cool that's good so I have nothing
Caption: against architect
Caption: I personally moved into the solution
Caption: architecture all about hue months ago
Caption: I've been working as a consultant
Caption: technical lead for the last two or three
Caption: years and recently moved into this
Caption: solution architect role so I'll share
Caption: with you the challenges and the the
Caption: things that I'm I'm seeing and this is
Caption: all from my perspective this is just my
Caption: perception of things so take it with a
Caption: grain of salt so just a bit of warning
Caption: architecture can be very fluffy and very
Caption: abstract I promise I won't bore you with
Caption: any UML diagrams or anything I'll try to
Caption: make it as relevant as possible but just
Caption: bear with me plus just to add to that I
Caption: didn't really have enough sleep last
Caption: night so I flew from Melbourne last
Caption: night so just to start let's start with
Caption: a contentious subject developer versus
Caption: architect so again this is just my
Caption: perception of things this is not
Caption: research paper saying okay this is how
Caption: things are so you would find that there
Caption: are a lot of young developers and more
Caption: and more you seeing people coming into
Caption: the development space because it's very
Caption: interesting it's very enjoyable thing to
Caption: do but you wouldn't see architects just
Caption: getting out of uni going into the
Caption: architect role so you ideally you would
Caption: have at least 10 15 years of experience
Caption: and it depends on what sort of architect
Caption: you are you're probably going to need
Caption: more so naturally the the age of an
Caption: architect would be slightly higher or
Caption: probably a bit more or higher than then
Caption: of a developer in terms of leadership
Caption: leadership is not really a title that
Caption: you give to somebody so some people are
Caption: just natural leader so you'll see many
Caption: developers are really influencers in
Caption: their teams but it's not really they
Caption: don't have the authority it's not really
Caption: part of their job responsibilities but
Caption: you see with architects it's really part
Caption: of their job they are paid to do that so
Caption: they need to make sure that they are
Caption: steering the conversation in the right
Caption: direction now with security and quality
Caption: they are pretty much on all layers on
Caption: all levels of software development so
Caption: you
Caption: everywhere and that's why architects or
Caption: developers they would probably work
Caption: collaboratively on that now in terms of
Caption: governance and vision for most
Caption: developers they don't really think that
Caption: they are it's part of their jobs and
Caption: it's it I think they are writing in
Caption: thinking so
Caption: but for architects it's really if
Caption: something goes south it's going to be
Caption: really you to blame because you are paid
Caption: to make sure that the development is
Caption: going in the direction that the
Caption: organization wants stakeholder
Caption: management again it's part of the
Caption: architectural not really much so from
Caption: the developer perspective and lastly but
Caption: quite importantly the pay so when you go
Caption: from a developer into an architect there
Caption: is a very decent jump as well now I'll
Caption: be very honest with you I thought it's
Caption: more fun than it is when I'm doing it
Caption: now and there are days or sometimes even
Caption: weeks where I wish that I just go back
Caption: into development because I just want to
Caption: focus on doing done rather than
Caption: just talking to peoples and going into
Caption: meetings and trying to explain things
Caption: and just throwing them on whiteboards so
Caption: the point I'm trying to make here is
Caption: although it might sound catchy to be an
Caption: architect it might not be the best thing
Caption: for you and I'm still myself trying to
Caption: figure out whether it's really best for
Caption: me or maybe I just moved into software
Caption: development sorry I mean as a developer
Caption: there you need to think about whether
Caption: it's it's the best thing for you or not
Caption: now architects also come in different
Caption: colors and shapes and forms so I thought
Caption: it would be good to just take a moment
Caption: and this told what the different titles
Caption: are so the ones that are related to
Caption: solution architecture that we're talking
Caption: about here there is one which is the
Caption: kind of the umbrella which is the
Caption: Enterprise Architect the Enterprise
Caption: Architect normally you would see it in a
Caption: big enterprises where they have mostly
Caption: and say in finance or in government or
Caption: in health you will see that they have
Caption: complex systems they have multiple
Caption: components so if they would have
Caption: Enterprise Architect their design would
Caption: be very high-level normally they would
Caption: have at least 20 plus years of
Caption: experience they don't really do
Caption: much technical detail and they're
Caption: designed and they are spanned across the
Caption: organization multiple projects multiple
Caption: teams and then underneath that you will
Caption: have the solution architects which is
Caption: what we're talking about today where
Caption: they are focused on the solutions so
Caption: there would be multiple components
Caption: typically they would work full multiple
Caption: projects multiple teams and their design
Caption: is very detailed and then you will have
Caption: the application architects or the tech
Caption: lead where they are focused on the
Caption: particular projects that they are
Caption: focused on and they are more concerned
Caption: by with components reuse in the
Caption: application that they are working on so
Caption: maybe they don't have the full vision of
Caption: the sphere of control on what's
Caption: happening outside of their project so
Caption: they are focused on on that narrow but
Caption: then their their work would be highly
Caption: detailed design and they work day to day
Caption: with the developers
Caption: so this one is not my take this is
Caption: coming from the great source Wikipedia
Caption: so I wanted to share what are the
Caption: concerns that I'm facing and building
Caption: the our our cloud application versus
Caption: offering first selecting the cloud
Caption: providers now this is not really the
Caption: call for the developer
Caption: now everybody would have saying in this
Caption: there are multiple shareholders
Caption: obviously ease of development or quicken
Caption: going to market people from the finance
Caption: department they will have a say in this
Caption: but it really comes down to the
Caption: architect who's going to be putting on
Caption: their architect ID and hat and saying
Caption: okay based on these metrics that we have
Caption: defined this is what we're going to be
Caption: going with choosing the compute unit and
Caption: the data storage unit how are you going
Caption: to store your data how are you going to
Caption: work with with this data are you going
Caption: to make sure that it's secure how are
Caption: you going to make sure that you have
Caption: full vision of what's happening in the
Caption: application at runtime if something goes
Caption: wrong how are you going to diagnose it
Caption: business continuity how do you make sure
Caption: that the business is still going to be
Caption: sustainable and resilient the apps are
Caption: going to be available and governance how
Caption: do you make sure that the architecture
Caption: that you building today is still going
Caption: to be relevant and still in action in a
Caption: year and a half time or two years or
Caption: five years time the first choosing cloud
Caption: provider it really there are so many
Caption: different factors that get involved but
Caption: I just wanted to I thought of putting
Caption: what has been relevant to me in the
Caption: current role that I'm working on so the
Caption: type of load that we put in whether it's
Caption: a legacy application whether it's a
Caption: modern application whether there is a
Caption: buzz offering that's supporting it the
Caption: size of load that you're putting so for
Caption: example if you're guaranteed
Caption: as your pals for example by default you
Caption: will get I think if you go with the
Caption: standard option you will get three
Caption: instances each would have one CPU I
Caption: think or sorry to core and if you
Caption: upgrade from that you get up to ten now
Caption: that's not to say that Azure cannot give
Caption: you the full load but you would need to
Caption: go with a different computer option now
Caption: is that going to be the the best that
Caption: you want so you're going to need to
Caption: weigh these options to decide what are
Caption: you going to choose
Caption: now SLI terms this is a very common
Caption: things to overlook two years ago I was
Caption: working in a start-up in in Melbourne
Caption: and we developed this IOT solution we
Caption: built it on based on placed on top of
Caption: Azure as your IOT hub and close to the
Caption: release date we realize that we made
Caption: some assumptions because Microsoft talks
Caption: if you read the documentation of the IOT
Caption: hub they talk a lot about the throughput
Caption: and the speed in which that they are
Caption: going to process these messages and
Caption: forward them but what we didn't take
Caption: into account latency and they change
Caption: something with latency and our systems
Caption: start breaking down and then when we
Caption: started after two weeks of interaction
Caption: with Microsoft realized that there was
Caption: no close in the SLA for the IOT hub that
Caption: says anything about latency the might
Caption: have said okay sorry well we didn't put
Caption: anything there because we cannot
Caption: guarantee your latency so our design was
Caption: flawed and we had to go into like a
Caption: month of work just to make sure that we
Caption: can do something that works with with
Caption: the architecture that we built our
Caption: system on so it's very high it's very
Caption: important to make sure that you're
Caption: reading your SLA you are meeting the
Caption: terms and conditions that you are
Caption: required to me
Caption: certifications if you are working with
Caption: financial institute or health I've
Caption: worked a lot with health organizations
Caption: and they would require certain
Caption: certifications for the system and when
Caption: you are where you are deploying it to
Caption: data centers and geo regions so what are
Caption: you deploying if you have this is very
Caption: important when it comes into data
Caption: sovereignty so if you if your clients
Caption: are forcing you to have your data within
Caption: their region or within their country
Caption: they are going to you're going to need
Caption: to make sure that there is a region
Caption: where you are targeting your users and
Caption: core services so if you if you're
Caption: getting with the hybrid model on-premise
Caption: and in the cloud then it's going to
Caption: you're going to need to make sure that
Caption: there is the network infrastructure the
Caption: VPN what not that's going to help you
Caption: achieve that application services so
Caption: what's
Caption: going if you're going to deploy for
Caption: example an asp.net application that's
Caption: targeting full dotnet framework
Caption: you cannot deploy it as a path offering
Caption: for example on Google Cloud you have to
Caption: deploy it either as a container service
Caption: or in deploy asp.net core so these are
Caption: also going to be factors to impact your
Caption: decision which cloud provider you're
Caption: going to go with
Caption: so one would ask how about price how
Caption: about cost and cost is a very
Caption: interesting subject but you will find
Caption: that most cloud providers they provide
Caption: quite a similar number quite similar
Caption: numbers when you when you look at them
Caption: and it's very hard to compare them as
Caption: Apple to Apple because everyone they
Caption: have their own obviously features and as
Caption: offerings and the numbers are quite hard
Caption: to match plus there was a survey I think
Caption: it was last year that was 82% of
Caption: enterprises that were surveyed they were
Caption: saying that they wanted a multi cloud
Caption: vendor strategy so they don't want to be
Caption: locked in into one particular cloud
Caption: vendor so you would want to make sure
Caption: that the solution that you're building
Caption: would be portable you could you could
Caption: span across multiple than theirs if you
Caption: need it to the choosing computing or
Caption: computing it um many of these things we
Caption: have already touched on so everybody
Caption: knows about infrastructure service on
Caption: the left and functional servers on the
Caption: right on the left you get poor control
Caption: you get full overhead obviously and
Caption: there is full cost there is a lot of
Caption: cost in ball but if you if you're
Caption: spinning up a virtual machine say in
Caption: edger you spin it probably seven or
Caption: eight component so you have the the
Caption: virtual machine the compute instance
Caption: itself you have the hard drive you have
Caption: the network interface card you have the
Caption: IP address you have the network security
Caption: group so you pay a lot and plus you're
Caption: gonna need to manage that patch it
Caption: yourself so there's a lot of overhead
Caption: there is a container of the service
Caption: which is better but then every cloud
Caption: provider would have their own way of
Caption: providing you with this service so
Caption: Google for example provide you with
Caption: kubernetes but then they take care of
Caption: managing the master instances for you so
Caption: you don't need to worry about it
Caption: handling all the loads and payloads and
Caption: whatnot which is good if you are trying
Caption: to grow into the market quick but then
Caption: you're going to need to think about the
Caption: vendor lock down path offering which is
Caption: my default option that I go to whenever
Caption: I start a project if I can't handle it
Caption: there then I'll go into investigating
Caption: other options and then functional the
Caption: service now there are a lot of people
Caption: nowadays that think functionalized
Caption: service is going to be just the next big
Caption: thing and
Caption: everything is just going to move into
Caption: functional service I've tend to disagree
Caption: because although functional service is
Caption: great its computing as utility you can
Caption: you can put your load there and then
Caption: it's just going to be handled for you
Caption: you don't need to worry about failover
Caption: and scalability and whatnot however
Caption: there are there is more to it than just
Caption: compute if you read the terms and
Caption: conditions from Asia for example or from
Caption: let's look at this example first and
Caption: then I'll tell you about the terms and
Caption: conditions if you look at if your code
Caption: is there in the function of the service
Caption: and typically you're going to have some
Caption: data storage they as your SQL or some
Caption: other thing and you're going to have
Caption: some logging and monitoring tools that
Caption: you have somewhere and in the in the
Caption: most rudimental huh if you if you're
Caption: scaling your function as a service and
Caption: you're getting multiple instances let's
Caption: say you got too much load its peak
Caption: season Christmas time and you've got too
Caption: many people coming in to your website
Caption: this is Panda
Caption: if you got say a thousand instances
Caption: running at the same time have you got
Caption: thousand connections going into your
Caption: database at the same time is your
Caption: database is going to be able to handle
Caption: that now connections is just one way but
Caption: how about security for example there are
Caption: a lot more aspects that you're going to
Caption: need to think about it you need to think
Caption: about more holistically is your
Caption: monitoring environment going to be able
Caption: to handle that load to scale with your
Caption: computer if you read they find prints
Caption: they say we will provide you with all
Caption: the computational resources required for
Caption: your instance for your application so
Caption: that's just compute compute instance
Caption: that's not really any other dependencies
Caption: your application gonna have so that's
Caption: just one thing to consider I found this
Caption: very relevant and it's very funny um I
Caption: think last year in in Queensland and
Caption: they built new train lines and they
Caption: built new trains and whatnot and when
Caption: they came in to the release and they
Caption: realized that they didn't have enough
Caption: drivers so they scaled their trains and
Caption: their train lines but they didn't have
Caption: driver said it didn't have a were able
Caption: to change their timetables and I think
Caption: they are still suffering from it so if
Caption: you read the time from this article it's
Caption: still there irrelevant September 2017
Caption: this was like last year or the year
Caption: before and they are still suffering from
Caption: the same problem they look at your
Caption: system holistically this is this is the
Caption: lesson that I have learned if you're
Caption: interested in choosing a compute
Caption: instance and you want to read about more
Caption: there was a great talk by Rob and Matt
Caption: who are both in the organizing committee
Caption: for DDD Perth they did they gave this
Caption: talk in NDC Sydney last month and I put
Caption: the link here so if anybody interested
Caption: the next thing we're gonna look at is
Caption: choosing a data storage so there are so
Caption: many variation of so many different
Caption: offerings for data storage where where
Caption: are you going to put your data how do
Caption: you make this decision as an architect
Caption: you're going to be hold accountable for
Caption: that and it's going to it's it's
Caption: possibly a decision that's going to make
Caption: or break your your application so for me
Caption: when I try to summarize this
Caption: before before I summarize it my recipe
Caption: normally when I face a tough choice like
Caption: this going into a place that I haven't
Caption: been before making the decision that
Caption: they have been made before using a
Caption: technology or frame will get too heavy
Caption: news I try to give myself enough time so
Caption: I'll make at least time for three or
Caption: four hours of just reading with open
Caption: mind critically thinking forgetting
Caption: about my biases forgetting about what I
Caption: want to do or what I enjoy doing but
Caption: just take that time and think about it
Caption: read about it learn as much as you can
Caption: and then try to build as much as proof
Caption: of concepts or side projects things that
Caption: you would use as play with teetee to
Caption: gauge whether this is going to be fit or
Caption: not so the first thing in my summary was
Caption: whether the data is structured or not
Caption: structured the volume and the velocity
Caption: or the data is coming in the data
Caption: consistency they
Caption: debbie is becoming a big thing or astray
Caption: for example from Amazon if these vendors
Caption: are giving telling you that your data is
Caption: going to be replicated across multiple
Caption: regions and it's great
Caption: is your data going to be consistent at
Caption: any point in time at at all nodes but if
Caption: somebody may transfer from their bank
Caption: account in London and at the same time
Caption: they try to do the same transaction from
Caption: their account but they try to do it from
Caption: Sydney for example is your data going to
Caption: be consistent in real time that's that
Caption: data consistency and I found it very
Caption: impressive that cosmos DB for example
Caption: gives you the ability to choose what
Caption: level of consistency you want whether
Caption: eventual or strict constancy but
Caption: obviously that comes with a cost
Caption: it cost a lot of money and performance
Caption: is not not I found it not great at least
Caption: in my case
Caption: data partitioning so that's for chasm
Caption: for performance so if you have
Caption: you're offering a sass offering and you
Caption: have customer a and they are all all
Caption: your data is holding the same storage
Caption: unit you want to make sure that customer
Caption: a cannot access data from customer B
Caption: because they are all the same database
Caption: right
Caption: and data sovereignty so the the current
Caption: application what I'm working on it's for
Caption: researchers in government and health
Caption: organisations and they want to have data
Caption: sovereignty if researcher is putting
Caption: their data and doing their surveys and
Caption: they are based in the UK for example I
Caption: cannot just replicate their data across
Caption: multiple regions their data has to stay
Caption: within their region or if the
Caption: researchers signing up from Australia
Caption: their data has to stay in within
Caption: Australia and that brings a lot of
Caption: challenges to solve but it also helps
Caption: you with making the decision for which
Caption: storage unit to go to
Caption: so
Caption: three years ago I was working for a
Caption: consulting for a retail big retail
Caption: company in Malden and I found that they
Caption: were using as your table storage for
Caption: cashing everybody would laugh at it
Caption: because as your table storage are very
Caption: slow everybody who used them they would
Caption: know they are slow especially if you
Caption: don't use the partition key properly and
Caption: then I found that the the story behind
Caption: it was that they were trying to use
Caption: ready sketch as you write sketch but it
Caption: wasn't available to as in preview at the
Caption: time and then they thought well we're
Caption: just going to use at your table storage
Caption: for now and then we'll switch it later
Caption: but it was lowering the system down
Caption: actually rather than giving them any
Caption: boost because you tried to use caching
Caption: to speed up your application but
Caption: obviously you're getting a penalty so I
Caption: have a small demo in this demo I'm just
Caption: going to show you so I'm taking some
Caption: data checking for system status taking
Caption: the data putting it into Azure SQL and
Caption: they're taking bad putting it into
Caption: energy or cosmos DB taking it from that
Caption: putting it into Amazon s3 and then
Caption: putting it into Google Cloud database
Caption: now there is no application that's going
Caption: to do all that obviously but it's just a
Caption: way of showing you the my very
Caption: rudimentary proof of concept for
Caption: checking the timing and whether it's
Caption: going to be suitable for my user or not
Caption: if I'm going to start this
Caption: there what's what's gonna happen while
Caption: it's running I'm going to show you so
Caption: basically what what we have here is
Caption: what we have here is I'm getting the
Caption: system status and I'm starting at a
Caption: stopwatch and starting getting to your
Caption: SQL database and then taking it from
Caption: that is your database
Caption: okay that's alright and then inserting
Caption: it into cosmos DB taking it from cosmos
Caption: DB T Amazon s3 and then taking it from
Caption: that into Google Cloud
Caption: so although everybody would agree that
Caption: this is nowhere close to a good proof of
Caption: concept for timing because there are so
Caption: many factors that you're going to need
Caption: to take into account what's the gear
Caption: that you're taking from each but even
Caption: with the simplest proof of concept you
Caption: can find that
Caption: the timing is quite different so if I'm
Caption: trying to make a decision and timing was
Caption: more important to me than consistency
Caption: for example I'll be leaning towards for
Caption: example s3 or maybe Google cloud
Caption: database for reading is it easy to read
Caption: sorry now okay let's try
Caption: is it easier trainer yeah you will say
Caption: that if if I'm trying to you will see
Caption: the difference here in reading it's two
Caption: hundred millisecond but in other
Caption: instances it's it's much longer so here
Caption: for example Google cloud database taken
Caption: seven hundred and even with the most
Caption: fundamental the the free tier from as
Caption: your SQL database is giving me less time
Caption: there with with right you will find even
Caption: more variation so this is like three
Caption: times the the amount of time that's
Caption: taking for for writing so it's very easy
Caption: to just spin up this these kind of
Caption: things it's very easy to spin up this
Caption: kind of proof of concepts and it would
Caption: help you to make the right decisions on
Caption: whether this is going to be fit for you
Caption: or not and obviously it's going to be
Caption: dependent on your circumstances and your
Caption: data that you have I'm going to be
Caption: sharing the code on on github after this
Caption: so if anybody is interested you can you
Caption: can get access to that okay
Caption: you
Caption: the security with security is really the
Caption: objective is is always confidentiality
Caption: the data is not accessed by anybody
Caption: integrity the data is not tampered with
Caption: or destructed by anybody availability
Caption: the the system is resilient against the
Caption: now distributed denial of service and
Caption: accountability if something goes wrong
Caption: we have traceability we have something
Caption: that we can rely on to to give us that
Caption: the picture of what's happening there in
Caption: terms of approach they standard I'm not
Caption: claiming to be an expert in security but
Caption: this is this is what but I I do
Caption: authentication authorization is normally
Caption: standard information hiding whether it's
Caption: by cryptography or by naming your data
Caption: differently auditing for intrusion
Caption: detection and very interesting you'll
Caption: find a lot of cloud providers provide
Caption: you now with platform service for inter
Caption: region detection for detecting any
Caption: malware or any malicious attack or
Caption: malicious access to your data multi
Caption: security layers is thinking about your
Caption: security in all the levels that you are
Caption: accessing your data and using the tool
Caption: so there are many tools I use sneak for
Caption: example it helps you with identifying
Caption: any vulnerabilities in your your data
Caption: and it helps you solve them
Caption: operations and monitoring I think we
Caption: touched on that real-time monitoring is
Caption: your monitoring platform going to be
Caption: scaling with with your compute and data
Caption: instances and choosing the right
Caption: platform and framework for for the for
Caption: the job
Caption: traceability so if you have a cloud
Caption: operation
Caption: it's more likely that you're going to
Caption: have multiple components and multiple
Caption: apps that are running at the same time
Caption: so you would want to make sure that you
Caption: have a way of correlating the messages
Caption: and the data are going from one end to
Caption: the other
Caption: normally you would use some correlation
Caption: idea or something to track all the
Caption: messages to see what's happening in real
Caption: time application profiling to make sure
Caption: that the verification is doing what you
Caption: want it to to do what you expecting it
Caption: to do
Caption: the business continuity
Caption: now what happens if your database was
Caption: deleted
Caption: they think about that for a second let
Caption: that sink in like many people would not
Caption: really take that into consideration but
Caption: there was a long conversation on Twitter
Caption: about two months ago a junior developer
Caption: just started in a job and the first
Caption: thing that they did they gave them a
Caption: document set up your system and they
Caption: just deleted the database now for that
Caption: whatever reason that that was a stupid
Caption: case and they were blaming the junior
Caption: developer for it which I don't think
Caption: he's liable for it but it happens um
Caption: they're even worse what happens if
Caption: you're a juror account or AWS account
Caption: was deleted
Caption: um and then you take that further how
Caption: consistence are your build and your
Caption: configurations and ultimately the
Caption: question is really here that we're
Caption: trying to get into you how hard is it
Caption: going to be how long is it gonna take
Caption: you to get back online now if you are a
Caption: developer you better be in a deep
Caption: but if you are and sorry for the
Caption: expression but if you are an architect
Caption: you're going to lose your job and
Caption: probably going to be even liable because
Caption: you are accountable from the
Caption: organization that's entrusted in you you
Caption: are liable that to make sure that the
Caption: system is available and these are your
Caption: decisions that's going to make the
Caption: impact
Caption: a couple of thing last year I was doing
Caption: a contracting gig for a mining company
Caption: in in Melbourne and we built this simple
Caption: application we went with pass offering
Caption: go and edger towards the end of the
Caption: project they said we have this risk
Caption: matrix that we want to meet and we want
Caption: to make sure that if as your goes down
Caption: we are still able to function so they
Caption: wanted to have
Caption: a backup on AWS and I was thinking like
Caption: why do you have to complicate things
Caption: Ezio gives you 99 point something so
Caption: that's that's probably going to be cool
Caption: the next day as your goes down for one
Caption: and a half hour anyways it was really
Caption: terrible I got pulled into a meeting and
Caption: I had to explain to the city what
Caption: decisions I have made obviously I was
Caption: close to losing my job luckily I was
Caption: able to survive from that but it's it's
Caption: really a lesson that we need to learn um
Caption: you need to think about these before
Caption: they happen so that you can prepare
Caption: yourself
Caption: lastly governance how do we make sure
Caption: that the architecture that we're putting
Caption: today is still going to be relevant and
Caption: we're still going to be able to use and
Caption: comply with it in the time to come so
Caption: this is really more about it there are
Caption: there are two folds for it that I see
Caption: one fold which is defining the rules and
Caption: getting the buy-in from from the people
Caption: in your team so defining to everybody
Caption: what's the style of architecture that
Caption: you using whether you're using event
Caption: sourcing whether using CQRS over there
Caption: using anything else that you want to
Caption: make sure that everybody understands
Caption: what style of architecture that you're
Caption: getting to what patterns are you heading
Caption: to and then the the second fold is using
Caption: those really tools to enforce that there
Caption: are great tools by
Caption: a guy called Andrew best from Sydney is
Caption: a I think a ratify consultant I really
Caption: love these tools Taylor for example
Caption: gives you the ability to enforce your
Caption: assumptions or requirements so if your
Caption: database query is taking longer than X
Caption: amount of time you have tests that's
Caption: going to fail in your CI CD and
Caption: developers are not going to be able to
Caption: continue without fixing that or
Caption: conventional for example if you are
Caption: following how many people use domain
Caption: driven design
Caption: yeah great um I think most people would
Caption: agree that when you start with
Caption: domain-driven design it's great
Caption: everything is clean everything is tidy
Caption: the more you're gonna move on the more
Caption: you're gonna find that people come into
Caption: the team they don't really comprehend
Caption: the full concept of domain-driven design
Caption: and they will start changing things
Caption: they're one one basic thing about
Caption: domain-driven design is that information
Caption: hiding information is not available and
Caption: then you put your boundaries and
Caption: everything changed through methods or
Caption: contracts that you do enforce somebody
Caption: would come in and then gonna make all
Caption: this data available so everything has a
Caption: gate and set and all the concepts and
Caption: all the considerations of DDD just run
Caption: out of the window so you want to make
Caption: sure that this is all enforced in your
Caption: code and your tests and conventional is
Caption: great I'm going to show you a demo in a
Caption: second for that so this is this is
Caption: really the same in point two which is
Caption: executable documents non-functional
Caption: requirements are must be enforced they
Caption: he you are required to have a
Caption: performance time no more than five
Caption: seconds then that really should be part
Caption: of your test so that if if your system
Caption: is taking more than five seconds then
Caption: you should you should fail the bill
Caption: because it's a requirement and you're
Caption: going to be able to go without it
Caption: traceability this is very important if
Caption: you're doing anything in health when
Caption: when I was working in health we were
Caption: required to show a full traceability for
Caption: every line of code where this is coming
Caption: from that we wrote this extension for
Caption: JIRA and it was taking the acceptance
Caption: criteria from Chiara generating the
Caption: feature files and our testers were
Caption: working with the feature files just to
Caption: do the automation testing so no need to
Caption: worry about it
Caption: manual testing it's all automated
Caption: testing and then the automation testing
Caption: is feeding back back basically saying
Caption: okay which line of code it's pointing to
Caption: or which feature it's pointing to so
Caption: that was really helpful and in the end
Caption: it's really getting the buy-in with all
Caption: the technology if you don't have the
Caption: buy-in people are not really happy to
Caption: contribute to it so without explaining
Caption: the why for your team you're not going
Caption: to get anywhere all right so we have the
Caption: second demo
Caption: you
Caption: can you see this
Caption: now this is a standard
Caption: aggregate if anybody used DDD you would
Caption: you would find this relevant so you have
Caption: the aggregate root here can you read
Caption: this
Caption: yeah okay so basically it's saying that
Caption: I need to have protected default
Caption: constructor for my Intel frameworks so
Caption: that can use that for serializing
Caption: my object it I need to have constructors
Caption: for factory methods to generate those
Caption: and all my properties need to be
Caption: protected so I need to have only private
Caption: sets so this is what we were talking
Caption: about it now
Caption: a year or two years later down the track
Caption: you get somebody just coming and joining
Caption: the team they don't really have full
Caption: comprehension of the LED that they go
Caption: and add a method and they say for
Caption: example
Caption: I'm going to add
Caption: now I'm having a public set here this is
Caption: throwing Dedede concepts out of the
Caption: window because you're really not having
Caption: any way of enforcing how these fields
Caption: are going to change so now if I if I run
Caption: my test here you're going to see that my
Caption: test is going to fail and this is really
Caption: great not only for enforcing the design
Caption: concept that you have embodied in your
Caption: in your code but it's also important for
Caption: shortening that feedback loop there
Caption: normally what would happen with a
Caption: scenario like this is that somebody is
Caption: going to add this this code we're going
Caption: to push it in it's going to come to you
Caption: whether you are technically there the
Caption: solution architects you're going to live
Caption: review it and you're going to say nope
Caption: rejected you're going to need to look at
Caption: this but this is taking so much time
Caption: it's taking time from you as the
Caption: architect or technical aid as well as
Caption: the developer if you have something like
Caption: this that's automating it it's going to
Caption: you gonna speed things up and make
Caption: things easier for yourself and for Pete
Caption: for other people if we look at that the
Caption: test that we have here all we're doing
Caption: really is using refer arm reflection
Caption: we're just loading all the aggregate
Caption: fruits and we're just saying okay all
Caption: rule all aggregates and must conform
Caption: into this standard or this style and
Caption: there are so many of these standards and
Caption: styles that are available for you and
Caption: they are all built using grossly so you
Caption: could extend them if you want to I find
Caption: it really an interesting tool and I use
Caption: it a lot I hope you you find and there
Caption: are other sorry there are a lot of other
Caption: things as well like for example if
Caption: somebody is using day time though now
Caption: for example how many people use that but
Caption: then it makes things really hard to test
Caption: it makes it really things really hard to
Caption: predict and you don't know when it's
Caption: going to just blow up in runtime so you
Caption: want to make sure that these kinds of
Caption: things are enforced
Caption: they're going back there
Caption: okay so we looked at that so I hope it
Caption: wasn't very fluffy I hope you find that
Caption: there was something useful in there and
Caption: again if there was anything that I would
Caption: want you to take away from this if you
Caption: reaching into something that you haven't
Caption: done before give yourself enough time to
Caption: think about it normally I give myself at
Caption: least three hours of just reading with
Caption: an open mind before I try to make any
Caption: decision and if I haven't really used it
Caption: at least in a side-project and proof of
Caption: concept I wouldn't be able to use it for
Caption: a prediction it's just I'm not really
Caption: qualified enough to you to go and use
Caption: that
Caption: and that's really all any questions I
Caption: have two small things here to give away
Caption: if anybody has any questions
Caption: now
Caption: you
Caption: true I try to make sure that
Caption: obviously you got to understand I've
Caption: only been a solution architect for a
Caption: short time so but my way is always
Caption: trying to make sure that I'm working
Caption: with all stakeholders so being the
Caption: developers the enterprise architects or
Caption: the security teams the operations team
Caption: what I have seen normally the case in my
Caption: consulting career is that
Caption: companies tend to or teens tend to leave
Caption: things until the last minute and
Caption: especially when it comes into security
Caption: or operations and that tend to create
Caption: big gaps or create scope creeps toward
Caption: the end of the project and everybody
Caption: would become unhappy so I try to make
Caption: sure that I engage people as as early on
Caption: as possible that's that's my only
Caption: approach
Caption: yep
Caption: you
Caption: a lot so when I when I moved into this
Caption: role I was interviewing for three roles
Caption: - all of them they wanted the solution
Caption: architect that is not really coding and
Caption: I didn't want to be rude so I said yeah
Caption: sure
Caption: but I didn't really want to progress
Caption: because I wanted to make sure that an
Caption: architect is still coding if I'm not
Caption: coding I'm not going to be able to feel
Caption: the pain or get the right feedback that
Caption: developers that they are giving me and
Caption: that's why I went with the with the
Caption: current role so normally you will find
Caption: me at least doing I try to say 10 to 30%
Caption: recording sometimes that doesn't happen
Caption: but I try to stay as close as possible
Caption: to to the development team
Caption: yeah
Caption: you
Caption: um so the question is how how hard it is
Caption: to learn or how much time you it would
Caption: take you to learn the domain of the new
Caption: organization of the processes of the new
Caption: organization now I think what helped me
Caption: was for the last three or four years I
Caption: was working as a consultant so I have
Caption: had gigs that lasted a week and I was
Caption: under the pump to deliver something in
Caption: the end of a week and I had gigs that
Caption: lasted three or four months so that
Caption: helped me a lot set me up for being able
Caption: to switch context and go into different
Caption: organizations and get projected as quick
Caption: as possible but it's also about making
Caption: sure that when you're getting into the
Caption: organisation's you are connecting with
Caption: the right people and getting the
Caption: information
Caption: in many scenarios I found it really hard
Caption: to get the right information the
Caption: information is there but just nobody
Caption: knows where it is and it's just part of
Caption: the game that you just can have to dig
Caption: that in and talk to the right people try
Caption: to tell people and people going to lead
Caption: you into other people to ask
Caption: yeah
Caption: yes so I talked about it making sure
Caption: that I'm reading enough for it that's
Caption: that's a really key element for me and I
Caption: found that really helped me a lot but
Caption: normally if we are trying to introduce
Caption: new technology we need to have an
Caption: agreement and the developer that's
Caption: introducing or the team that's
Caption: introducing this this new technology or
Caption: framework and and myself or whoever else
Caption: is involved need to have that agreement
Caption: now normally
Caption: as technologists really we are very
Caption: passionate about new technology and I
Caption: myself included I love when I hear about
Caption: a new framework and I just want to get
Caption: started into coding and using it but
Caption: then you want to make sure that you are
Caption: addressing the risk because every
Caption: technology that you are adding it's a
Caption: risk do you have the right tools do you
Caption: have the right people the skill set to
Caption: be able to end productive with it so
Caption: normally I try to have
Caption: it's kind of like a checklist making
Caption: sure that do we have something that does
Caption: that and are there gaps with the one
Caption: that the tool or framework that we're
Caption: using is there a justification for
Caption: introducing this tool if there is sure
Caption: let's use it but let's understand
Caption: whether there are any other tools and in
Caption: many instances that I have seen there
Caption: are tools that there are there um there
Caption: was I give you an example I think it was
Caption: last year we're using spec for and I
Caption: don't know how many people use spec for
Caption: it's great for Auto mocking so if you
Caption: are doing testing somebody's gonna
Caption: disagree with me here but if you're
Caption: doing unit testing and you want to you
Caption: oughta mock certain elements if you
Caption: don't want to focus on this you want to
Caption: focus on the piece that you are working
Caption: with we're using spec 4 which was great
Caption: for that a developer came to me and he
Caption: said I'm going to use auto fixture why
Caption: do you want to use auto fixture because
Caption: auto mocking doesn't do this and that
Caption: okay so let's look at the documentation
Caption: looking at the documentation for about
Caption: them and it solved the problem that he
Caption: was trying to you have by introducing
Caption: this new technology and there is nothing
Caption: wrong with introducing new technology
Caption: but as long as we have the right reason
Caption: for it great let's go for it
Caption: but sometimes just asking the right
Caption: questions you're gonna find whether
Caption: there is a real need for it or whether
Caption: there is not I hope that answered your
Caption: question
Caption: any other clothes yes
Caption: you
Caption: I
Caption: now at the moment I'm actually permanent
Caption: it's interesting if you look at my
Caption: profile I haven't stayed in a place for
Caption: more than a year and a half I've moved a
Caption: lot and I think that helped me a lot in
Caption: being the person I am learning a lot
Caption: about other domains and learning about
Caption: how other companies are doing things
Caption: [Music]
Caption: but in going into an interval into an
Caption: architectural you're gonna you're gonna
Caption: need to have some long-term engagement
Caption: but I found it interesting that many
Caption: companies are willing to take somebody
Caption: for an architectural for six months or a
Caption: year at the moment I'm currently on a
Caption: permanent phase but
Caption: I'm thinking I'm still weighing my
Caption: options I'll be very honest with you I
Caption: haven't really made a decision I'm still
Caption: thinking whether I should go back into
Caption: just being a developer because I think I
Caption: enjoy my time more yes
Caption: focusing on the technical side rather
Caption: than focusing going stakeholder
Caption: management I'm still trying to work out
Caption: my decision but I was looking and there
Caption: are so many jobs even Enterprise
Caption: architects which is like more strategic
Caption: and more visionary kind of role in the
Caption: enterprise and there are contracts for
Caption: six months or one year if I wanted to do
Caption: that or if somebody want to do that you
Caption: can still do that
Caption: right yeah
Caption: you
Caption: there is there is for obviously there is
Caption: probably more legacy code in the
Caption: industry than Greenfield at the moment
Caption: because there are so many new concepts
Caption: coming up whether it's virtual reality
Caption: IOT machine learning artificial
Caption: intelligence so there are a lot of new
Caption: development going up so there is more
Caption: greenfield but there is a lot more
Caption: legacy code as well
Caption: I have done a lot of legacy engagements
Caption: myself so the engagement that I was
Caption: talking about for one week that was
Caption: actually for a utility company down in
Caption: Melbourne where they had a contract with
Caption: the Defense Department and something
Caption: wasn't working and it hit the fan that
Caption: Defense Department told them okay we
Caption: gonna cancel your contract so they got
Caption: me in and they told me okay you're gonna
Caption: need to find this it was an Android
Caption: application connecting to the cloud and
Caption: it was just timing out and was in
Caption: logging them off so my engagement was
Caption: just to make sure that what's the
Caption: problem find the problem first and the
Caption: first week was just really just finding
Caption: the problem and I found out the problem
Caption: the first three days I think and then
Caption: after that we went into the second phase
Caption: which took about the other name probably
Caption: two or three weeks for them to go
Caption: through the process and sign the
Caption: purchase order with more and then we put
Caption: a fix for it so I've done legacy code as
Caption: well and there is more legacy code
Caption: actually especially if you go into
Caption: finest Institute there is more legacy
Caption: than then greenfield development
Caption: it depends on the organization and the
Caption: role that you want to play it is an
Caption: advisory role and they I don't really
Caption: like to be an advisory so I want to make
Caption: sure that I get my hands dirty and
Caption: that's why I'm saying I went into the
Caption: third role rather than the first two
Caption: roles so it's really depends on you and
Caption: the role the organization that you're
Caption: going to like I said the first two
Caption: questions the people that asked very I
Caption: don't know your name said your gifts are
Caption: here Thanks thanks everybody
Caption: [Applause]